# open files in programms

alias -s dia=dia
alias -s dvi=okular
alias -s eps=okular
alias -s pdf=okular

# text files
alias -s cc=vim
alias -s coffee=vim
alias -s conf=vim
alias -s cpp=vim
alias -s css=vim
alias -s csv=vim
alias -s c=vim
alias -s haml=vim
alias -s html=vim
alias -s htm=vim
alias -s h=vim
alias -s ini=vim
alias -s java=vim
alias -s json=vim
alias -s js=vim
alias -s patch=vim
alias -s rhtml=vim
alias -s sass=vim
alias -s scss=vim
alias -s sql=vim
alias -s sublime-project=vim
alias -s tex=vim
alias -s todo=vim
alias -s txt=vim
alias -s vim=vim
alias -s xhtml=vim
alias -s xml=vim
alias -s yaml=vim
alias -s yml=vim
alias -s zsh-theme=vim

alias -s markdown=vim
alias -s md=vim
alias -s mkd=vim

# office
alias -s doc=libreoffice
alias -s docx=libreoffice
alias -s mpp=libreoffice
alias -s ods=libreoffice
alias -s odt=libreoffice
alias -s ppt=libreoffice
alias -s pptx=libreoffice
alias -s rtf=libreoffice
alias -s xls=libreoffice
alias -s xlsx=libreoffice

# video files
alias -s avi=mplayer
alias -s flv=mplayer
alias -s mkv=mplayer
alias -s mp4=mplayer
alias -s mpeg=mplayer
alias -s mpg=mplayer
alias -s swf=mplayer
alias -s vob=mplayer
alias -s wmv=mplayer

# audio files
alias -s aac=mplayer
alias -s flac=mplayer
alias -s mp2=mplayer
alias -s mp3=mplayer
alias -s ogg=mplayer
alias -s wav=mplayer
alias -s wma=mplayer

# images
alias -s bmp=mirage
alias -s gif=mirage
alias -s jpeg=mirage
alias -s jpg=mirage
alias -s png=mirage
alias -s tiff=mirage
alias -s tif=mirage
alias -s xcf=gimp

# vim: set ft=zsh :
